# Wiring Beans in Spring: Method Parameter Approach

In this lecture, we'll explore an alternative approach to wiring beans using method parameters. Instead of manually calling the bean-creating method within another method (as discussed in the previous lecture), we can leverage Spring's ability to recognize dependencies through method parameters.

## Using Method Parameters for Autowiring

On the left-hand side of the screen, you can see that the `person` method, annotated with `@Bean`, now accepts a method parameter of type `Vehicle`. This method parameter indicates to Spring that the `Person` bean has a dependency on a `Vehicle` bean.

Spring's IoC container, when encountering a method parameter, attempts to find a bean of the same data type within the context. If it exists, Spring will automatically inject or autowire that dependency.

Let's implement this approach in our example Maven project named **Example10**.

### Code Changes in `ProjectConfig.java`

```java
@Configuration
public class ProjectConfig {

    @Bean
    public Vehicle vehicle() {
        System.out.println("Vehicle bean created by Spring.");
        return new Vehicle("Toyota");
    }

    @Bean
    public Person person(Vehicle vehicle) { // Using Method Parameter for Autowiring
        System.out.println("Person bean created by Spring.");

        return new Person("Lucy", vehicle);
    }
}
```

In the `person` method, we've added a method parameter of type `Vehicle`. Spring will automatically provide the `Vehicle` bean when creating the `Person` bean.

### Main Class (`Main.java`)

```java
public class Main {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        AnnotationConfigApplicationContext context = new AnnotationConfigApplicationContext(ProjectConfig.class);

        Person person = context.getBean(Person.class);
        Vehicle vehicle = context.getBean(Vehicle.class);

        System.out.println("Person name: " + person.getName());
        System.out.println("Vehicle name: " + vehicle.getName());

        System.out.println("Vehicle that person owns: " + person.getVehicle().getName());

        context.close();
    }
}
```

### Output

Executing the program should produce output similar to the previous example, indicating that the relationship between the `Vehicle` and `Person` beans has been established.

### Advantages of Autowiring with Method Parameters

- **Cleaner Code:** The wiring happens through method parameters, making the code cleaner and reducing the need for explicit method calls.
- **Easier Maintenance:** Changes in dependencies can be handled more easily. If the dependency type changes, you only need to update the method parameter.

### Introduction to `@Autowired`

While the method parameter approach is an improvement, Spring provides an even more convenient way to achieve autowiring using the `@Autowired` annotation. We'll explore this in the next lecture.

By now, you should have a good understanding of how to wire beans using method parameters. Practice this approach with the provided example and be ready for the upcoming lecture on `@Autowired`. See you in the next lecture!