# Installing Docker on Linux - Step-by-Step Guide

In this demo, we'll walk through the process of installing Docker on a Linux machine. Docker is a versatile containerization platform that facilitates the development and deployment of applications. Follow these steps to get started:

### Step 1: Update Package Lists

Before installing Docker, it's a good practice to update the package lists to ensure you get the latest version.

```bash
sudo apt update
```

### Step 2: Install Docker Dependencies

```bash
sudo apt install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common
```

These dependencies enable the use of HTTPS to communicate with Docker repositories.

### Step 3: Add Docker's GPG Key

```bash
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg
```

This command adds Docker's official GPG key.

### Step 4: Set Up the Stable Docker Repository

```bash
echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null
```

This command adds the Docker repository to your system's package sources.

### Step 5: Install Docker Engine

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
```

These commands install Docker Engine, Docker CLI, and containerd.

### Step 6: Verify Docker Installation

```bash
sudo docker --version
sudo docker run hello-world
```

The first command confirms the Docker version, and the second one runs a simple "hello-world" container to verify the installation.

### Step 7: Manage Docker Without Sudo (Optional)

To run Docker commands without using `sudo`, add your user to the `docker` group. Replace `<username>` with your actual username.

```bash
sudo usermod -aG docker <username>
```

You might need to log out and log back in or restart your system for the changes to take effect.

### Conclusion

You've successfully installed Docker on your Linux machine. Docker provides a powerful environment for containerized applications, streamlining development, and deployment processes. Feel free to explore more Docker features and capabilities as you continue your containerization journey.

### A note on installing Docker
In the upcoming Demo we will see how to install Docker on a Linux machine.

However, remember that you don't really need to setup your own Docker system to complete this course. We have hands-on labs that open up right in your browser.



If you really wish to setup your own system, then feel free to follow along. In case you are on Windows, you have 2 options:



1. Install Virtualbox and deploy a Linux VM and then follow the upcoming demo to install Docker on that Linux VM.

2. Install Docker on Windows. Watch this lecture and demo on Docker on Windows now.